how to form the present simple:
add 's' or 'es' to the verb in the 3rd person singular (he/she/it)
make negatives using don't or doesn't 
make questions with do or does

i visit them once a week
she visits them once a week

i have a lot of things to do
i don't have a lot of things to do

i don't have much time
he doesn't have much time

you have a big family
do you have a big family

do you live in this building
does she live in this building


talking about regular actions:
she calls het parents every week
i don't often go to the gym
do you always eat so quickly

talking about general truths:
the moon goes around the earth
the nile is the longest river in the world
elephants live for 60 or 70 years on average

talking about states:
you seem a bit quiet today
he has a lot of experience in his subject
why does this one cost more than the others

verbs of sensing: hear, see, smell
verbs of feeling: like, love, hate
verbs of thinking: know, realise, remember
verbs of speaking: promise, admit, advise

talking about sensing, feeling, thinking and speaking:
this cheese smells a bit strange
i don't like going shopping 
do you realise what you're doing
i promise it won't happen again


permanent
temporary

she lives with her friend
describes a permanent or long-lasting situation

she's living with her friend
describes a temporary siutation

he works for a small design company
he's working for a small design company

i go to the gym every week
i'm going to the gym every week

the present continuous



making stories sound more direct and exciting:
so, i see this guy who looks just like johnny depp, and i go up to talk to him, but then i trip and throw my drink all over him! he gives me this book, like i'm a complete idiot, and just walks away


newspaper headlines:
prime minister resigns
scientists discover new element

commentary = describing something as it's happing (on tv / on the radio)
he passes, he shoots... he hits the post!
she serves, but williams makes a great return!
the prince waits at the altar, while the princess walks slowly up the aisle.

longer actions in commentary:
he's warming up and getting ready to come on the pitch.
the players are talking a break while the medic treats her lag.

talking about future schedules:
class starts at 10.00
the plane arrives at 12.20 at night
what time does the meeting start






obligations and rules:
i must remember to call her - it's her birthday
all passengers must hold a valid ticket

concert

all candidates must show valid ID


talking about prohibition = something not allowed, something forbidden
prohibition:
you mustn't somke here
mobile phones must not be used while the plane is flying

strong advice:
you must read this book. it's amazing!
if you go to paris, you must take a walk by the river at night
we must hire some new staff as soon as possible

you can't use mustn't to give strong advice


making deductions:
they must be rich. their house is huge.
it must be a difficult exam; only 10% of candidates pass.
it must have rained last night.

accountant
financial situation

they must be rich.
- deduction

they're rich.
- fact

you can't use the short form (mustn't) to make deductions

opposite


different meanings of must have different negatives

we must be there at 9.00 tomorrow.
past:
we had to be here at 9.00 yesterday.

we mustn't somke in the restaurant.
past:
we couldn't smoke in the restaurant.

you must try the stew. it's delicious!
past:
you should have tried the stew. it was delicious!

they must be on the subway. i can't get through on the phone.
past:
they must have been on the subway - i couldn't get through on the phone.







kiosk

in the top left          at the top                        in the top right
 
on the left               in the centre / middle     on the right

in the bottom left    at the bottom                  in the bottom right


blouse
laptop
descriptive
ponytail
she is wearing a plain, grey top with buttons.

in my opinion...
i think...
probably...
personally...

spicy
jumper
chocolate crepes
uniform


slap-up
definitely
veggie
casual
fusion
buffet
a kiosk

this curry's very spicy
the sauce is quite sour
maybe they put vinegar in
i don't like the vegetables; they taste bitter
i like the soup, it's salty
the chicken has a kind of sweet flavour


chili
acidic
grapefruit
bitter
texture
packet of crisps
crunchy and crispy
bite
chewy
chew
pasta
tough
burger
barbecue
melt
fatty food
dessert
truffle


childish
it's really yummy!
that looks mouth-watering.
mmm, scrumptious!

that chocolate cake is very rich!
your cake looks really decadent.
luxurious
heavy ingredient
butter 
cream
savoury
tender 
juicy

this pork's amazing; it's really tender.
a good steak should be juicy when you cut into it.

salad or raw vegetables
crisp
fresh
lettuce



general: yummy, mouth-watering, scrumptious
desserts: decadent, rich
meat: tender, juicy
salad: fresh, crisp


pretend
disgusting
revolting
extremely
turns my stomach
offensive
bland
tasteless
flavour

chips and a steak
burnt
overdone
like an old shoe
undercooked

oily
greasy
fatty


general: turns my stomach, revolting, disgusting
no taste: bland, tasteless
cooking problems: burnt, overdone, undercooked
too much oil: fatty, oily, greasy

plain
