trousers
plural
singular

1.uncountable nouns can't be plural
2.use a singular verb with uncountable nouns
        this rice doesn't taste right.
        your money is on the table.
        his knowledge of this subject has improved significantly.
3.don't use 'a' or 'an' with uncountable nouns
       is there any rice left
       you'll need some money for the bus.
4.use different words to talk about quantities with countable / uncountable nouns
      countable: many, few, a lot of, lots of
      uncountable: much, little, a lot of, lots of
           there isn't much rice left.
           there aren't many potatoes left.
           there's a little money in my pocket.
           there are a few coins in that small box.


food & drink
pasta
fruit is uncountable
vegetables are countable

collective nouns
furniture
equipment
luggage
traffic

abstract nouns are often uncountable
knowledge
information
advice
progress


longman

we eat a lot of fish.
there's a fish in the toilet!
he eat three whole fish.

the sculpture was made of glass.
would you like a glass of water?

a occasion or a period
i don't have much free time.
how much time will you need to finish this?
there have been many times when i wanted to give up.
we had a good time at their barbecue.


stuff
my friend jacob has a long hair.  X
my friend jacob has long hair. 


uncountable + plural
police
clothes
trousers
scissors
 
the police have interviewed all the witnesses.
these trousers don't fit well.
careful with the scissors --- they'er sharp.
  

the news are depressing at the moment.  X
the news is depressing at the moment. 



staff
team
crew

the staff aren't happy with the new uniform.  The UK
the team are playing well at the moment.      The UK

the staff isn't happy with the new uniform.  The US
the team is playing well at the moment.      The US



consistent
actually
grains


rice is made up of single grains of rice.
here is one grain of rice.

a grain of rice
a bag of rice
a packet of rice
a portion of rice


add noun + of to make an uncountable noun countable

there was a single grain of rice left at the bottom of his bowl.
can you get two of those big bags of rice?
we'd like here portions of rice, please.

advice
bread
money
furniture
coffee

a piece of advice
a piece of bread
a loaf of bread
a slice of bread
a sum of money
an amount of money
he's lost a large amount of money trying to play the stock market.

a piece of furniture
a item of furniture
a cup of coffee
a packet of coffee
a spoonful of coffee
a pot of coffee








bournemouth
nickname
cherries
goals
rollercoaster ride
neutral
swansea
premier
league
fans
supporter
kept a clean sheet
goalkeepers
back-to-back victories

stadium
dugout
staff
assistant
subs
tactics
substitutes
crossbar
dodgy
corners
kicks
defenders
midfielders
forwards
strikers
central
possession
the ref
tunnel
opposition
fouls
aggressive
counterattacks
tosses
cagey
affair
cuppa
dribbling
shaded
slightly
a quick one
whilst
definitely
relegation
promoted
local derby



