sporty
fanatic
indirect
athletic
snooker
weirdly
fascinating
volleyball
hockey
cricket
individual
tennis
badminton
gymnastic
boxing


play + ball sports
go + activities with -ing
do + other activities

varied
repetitive
socialize
regularly
fitness
staying healthy
personally



malware infection
appropriate
several
interaction
staff
recently
urgently
breach
clarify
relatively direct
inappropriate
corporate
laptop
personal financial






email greetings
Dear Lina,
Dear Sir/Madam,
Dear Mr Hill,

Hello,
Hi, Ryan,
Hey,

I hope you're well.
How are you?



Formal: Dear + name
Neutral: Hello/Hi + name
Informal: Hi/Hey, or not greeting



opening sentences
I'm writing regarding...
I wanted to follow up on...
I would like to ask about...

I'm concerned about...
I need to bring something to your attention...



informal opening sentence
Do you know when the database issues will be fixed?


add details
...


changing topic
There's one more thing I'd like to discuss with you.
Regarding...
I'd also like to ask you about...


adding a call to action
Please...by tomorrow at the latest.
As a matter of urgently, you need to...

Could you please...?
I would like you to...


adding a call to action
(less direct)

I suggest that you contact all clients who may have been affected by the data breach.
Can I ask you to design a poster to inform staff about the new policies?


This is just to keep you updated.
This doesn't require any immediate response, but plaese keep an eye on the situation.


adding a sign-off
Regards,
Best Wishes,
Kind Regards,

informal sign-offs
Cheers,
Take care,



Regards,

Vijay


Cheers,

Katya

---------------------------------------
1. Use an appropriate greeting
2. Introduce your topic in a single sentence
3. Add details to your topic in a short paragraph
4. Add a call-to-action to explain what you need the other person to do
5. Use an appropriate sing-off




