oxford online english
-----------------------------------------------------

obvious
cinerma
manners
a pupil
patient
idiot
stick
fridge
foreign
pineapples
past participle
eat, ate, eaten
do, did, done
the present perfect tense
the past simple tense
yet
syllables

// reading say
november 14th 
- november the fourteenth 
- the fourteenth of november
september 30th
- september the thirtieth
- the thirtieth of september



1900 - nineteen hundred
1902 - nineteen oh two
1980 - nineteen eighty
2001 - two thousand and one
2010 - two thousand and ten / twenty ten
shorten
recent past
1981 - eighty-one
2001 - oh-one
1999 - ninety-nine

june 20th 1989 - twentieth of the sixth, eighty-nine



vowels 
consonants
muscles
throat
vibration
straight
lungs

after a voiced consonant or a vowel, -ed is pronounced /d/:
lived - /v/ is voiced
called - /l/ is voiced
worried - worry ends with a vowel sound

after unvoiced consonants, -ed is pronounced /t/:
laughed - /f/ is unvoiced 
missed - /s/ is unvoiced
watched - /tf/ is unvoiced

after the consonant sounds /d/ or /t/, -ed is pronounced /id/:
wanted
waited
landed
ended



modal verbs for ability
managed to
be able to
general ability
violin


the traffic was really bad, but we could catch our train. // not correct, because we can't use 'could' to talk about specific abilities in the past.

the traffic was really bad, but we were able to catch our train.
= 
the traffic was really bad, but we managed to catch our train.
---> this is a specific situation, at a specific time, so we can't use could

it was hard work, but we managed to finish everything on time. ( = we finished something specific, at a specific moment)
our car broke down on the way, but luckily i was able to fix it. ( =  i fixed it at a specific moment, it wasn't a general thing)


it was hard work, and we couldn't finish everything on time.
it was hard work, and we weren't able to finish everything on time.

if the sentence is negative, it doesn't matter if the situation is general or specific: you can use both forms






i couldn't help you because i had too much to do.
=
i wasn't able to help you because i had too much to do.

i coundn't help you even if wanted to.
= 
i wouldn't be able to help you even if i wanted to


a past meaning
a hypothetical meaning
1. could = was able to
2. could = would be able to
conditional









