comma
cucumber
tomato
onion
lettuce
joining comma
full stop
get the grade
the bracketing comma

colleague
semi-professional footballer
invited
5-a-side team
pair
grammatically
extra
make sense
strict
cruel
fear
staff
astronaut
painter
cupboard

don't put a comma between a subject and its verb
don't use a comma before that
don't ues a comma to join two sentence if you don't use a linking word


shyness
nervousness
stuck
exotic
literature
philosophy
traffic jam
misty mountains
poem
horribly
guarantee
wear a mask
exaggeration
rhythm
fluency
hesitate


i am
you are
he/she/it is
we are
you are
they are

my brother = he 
my brother is
the cups = they
the cups are


use be + number
i am 17 years old.
you are 190 cm tall. // centimeters
it is 5 o'clock.

use be + noun
he is a doctor
she is a student
it is a cookbook

use be + adjective
we are hungry
you are very quiet
they are german

contraction
i am not ---- i'm not
you are not ---- you aren't or you're not 
he is not ---- he isn't or he's not
she is not ---- she isn't or she's not
it is not ---- it isn't or it's not
we are not ---- we aren't or we're not
they are not ---- they aren't or they're not


he is a doctor.
is he a doctor?

sarah is a student.
is sarah a student?


compliment
delicious
strange
creepy
passionate


you're a good listener
i like you. you're really friendly.
you're very hard-working.
i wish i was as organized as you.

you look nice!
you look amazing!
i love your outfit!

i love your shoes. are they new?
i like your T-shirt. where did you get it?
what a lovely scarf!

that colour looks good on you.
you look amazing in green.
that colour really suits you.

mention
presume
attractive


you're looking beautiful / handsome today!

women:
gorgeous
stunning
lovely

relative
inappropriate

aggressive
i hope you don't mind me saying, but i think you're very attractive.
can i just say that i think you're gorgeous.
has anyone ever told you how pretty you are?



i love your home!
what a nice apartment!
you have a beautiful home!
it's really spacious in here!
i love how cosy it is.
where did you get your lamp from? i love it
your kitchen's so modern! it looks great.


ingredient
whilst
the lasagne is delicious.
this salad is very tasty.
Mmm! this is fantastic!

did you make this from scratch?
you've got to give me the recipe for this meal!
that was delicious! my compliments to the chef.










